Convert codelab to use emulators (#173)
firebase/codelab-friendlychat-android: steps/index.lab.md

> *  <img src="img/android_studio_folder.png" alt="android_studio_folder"  width="20.00" />**build-android-start**—Starting code that you build upon in this codelab.
> *  <img src="img/android_studio_folder.png" alt="android_studio_folder"  width="20.00" />**build-android**—Completed code for the finished sample app.
> 
> **Note**: If you want to run the finished app, you have to create a Firebase project in the Firebase console, along with a Firebase Android App that has your app's package name and SHA1. For more information, see [Step #10](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/firebase-android/#9) of this codelab.

### Import into Android Studio

> In Android Studio click **File** > **Open** and  select the `build-android-start` directory ( <img src="img/android_studio_folder.png" alt="android_studio_folder"  width="20.00" />) from the directory where you downloaded the sample code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Android Studio, select **File** > **Open**, then select the `build-android-start` directory ( <img src="img/android_studio_folder.png" alt="android_studio_folder"  width="20.00" />) from the directory where you downloaded the sample code.
```

You should now have the `build-android-start` project open in Android Studio. If you see a warning about a `google-services.json` file missing, don't worry. It will be added in a later step.

> ### Check Dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check dependencies
```

// must match the values defined in the firebase.json file.
if (BuildConfig.DEBUG) {
    Firebase.database.useEmulator("10.0.2.2", 9000)
    Firebase.auth.useEmulator("10.0.2.2", 9099)
    Firebase.storage.useEmulator("10.0.2.2", 9199)
}
```

## Run the starter app
Duration: 03:00

### Add google-services.json

In order for your Android app to connect to Firebase, you must add a `google-services.json` file inside the `app` folder of your Android project. For the purposes of this codelab, we've provided a mock JSON file which will allow you to connect to the Firebase Emulator Suite.

Copy the `mock-google-services.json` file into the `build-android-start/app` folder as `google-services.json`:

```shell
cp mock-google-services.json build-android-start/app/google-services.json
```

In the final step of this codelab, you'll learn how to create a real Firebase project and Firebase Android App so that you can replace this mock JSON file with your own configuration.

### Run the app

Now that you've imported the project into Android Studio and added a Firebase configuration JSON file, you're ready to run the app for the first time.

> aside negative
>

> > Note: in order for your app to communicate with the Firebase Emulator Suite it must be running on an Android Emulator, not a real Android device. This will allow the app to communicate with the Firebase Emulator Suite on `localhost`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: In order for your app to communicate with the Firebase Emulator Suite, it must be running on an Android Emulator, not a real Android device. This will allow the app to communicate with the Firebase Emulator Suite on `localhost`.
```

    implementation 'com.firebaseui:firebase-ui-database:7.1.1'
}

// Apply the 'google-services' plugin
apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
```

## Install the Firebase CLI
Duration: 05:00

In order to run the [Firebase Emulator Suite](https://firebase.google.com/docs/emulator-suite) you
will need to install the [Firebase CLI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli).

### Install the CLI

#### Option 1 - Install with npm

If you already have Node.js and NPM installed on your machine you can install the CLI with the
following command:

```shell
npm install -g firebase-tools@latest
```

#### Option 2 - Install Standalone

If you do not have Node.js/NPM, you can install the CLI as a standalone binary following the
[instructions for your platform here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli).

### Check Installation

Once you have the Firebase CLI installed, run the following command to make sure you have
version `9.11.0` or higher:

```shell
firebase --version
```

## Connect to the the Emulator Suite
Duration: 02:00

### Start the emulators

In your terminal run the following command within the `codelab-friendlychat-android` directory:

```shell

> firebase --project=demo-friendlychat-android emulators:start

Author: Good call.

        .addOnSuccessListener(this) {
            // If sign in succeeds the auth state listener will be notified and logic to
            // handle the signed in user can be handled in the listener.
            Log.d(TAG, "signInWithCredential:success")
            startActivity(Intent(this@SignInActivity, MainActivity::class.java))
            finish()
        }
        .addOnFailureListener(this) { e -> // If sign in fails, display a message to the user.
            Log.w(TAG, "signInWithCredential", e)
        val response = IdpResponse.fromResultIntent(data)
        if (resultCode == RESULT_OK) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Sign in successful!")
            goToMainActivity()
        } else {
            Toast.makeText(
                this@SignInActivity, "Authentication failed.",
                Toast.LENGTH_SHORT
            ).show()
                    this,
                    "There was an error signing in",
                    Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show()
            if (response == null) {
                Log.w(TAG, "Sign in canceled")
            } else {
                Log.w(TAG, "Sign in error", response.error)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> That's it! You've implemented authentication using Google as an Identity Provider in just a few method calls and without needing to manage any server-side configuration.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention in this step that the developer should be able to see the registered users in the Auth Emulator?

Author: Yep!

            Log.d(TAG, "Sign in successful!")
            goToMainActivity()
        } else {
            Toast.makeText(
                    this,
                    "There was an error signing in",
                    Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show()
            if (response == null) {
                Log.w(TAG, "Sign in canceled")
            } else {
                Log.w(TAG, "Sign in error", response.error)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

That's it! You've implemented authentication with FirebaseUI in just a few method calls and without needing to manage any server-side configuration.

#### Test your work

Run the app on your device. You should be immediately sent to the sign-in screen. Tap the **Sign in with email** button and create an account. You should then be sent to the messaging screen if everything worked well.

> **Note**: Google Sign In will not work yet because we have not properly registered the app in the Firebase console. You'll have a chance to do this at the end of the codelab.

After signing in you should also be able to see the signed-in user in the **Authentication** tab of the Emulators UI.

<img src="img/emulators-auth-user.png" />

> ## Read Messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Read messages
```

        } else {
            Toast.makeText(
                    this,
                    "There was an error signing in",
                    Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show()
            if (response == null) {
                Log.w(TAG, "Sign in canceled")
            } else {
                Log.w(TAG, "Sign in error", response.error)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

That's it! You've implemented authentication with FirebaseUI in just a few method calls and without needing to manage any server-side configuration.

#### Test your work

Run the app on your Android Emulator. You should be immediately sent to the sign-in screen. Tap the **Sign in with email** button, then create an account. If everything is implemented correctly, you should be sent to the messaging screen.

> aside negative
>
> Note: Google Sign-In will not work yet because you haven't registered your app with Firebase. You'll have a chance to do this at the end of the codelab.

After signing in, open the Firebase Emulator Suite UI in your browser, then click the **Authentication** tab to see this first signed-in user account.

<img src="img/emulators-auth-user.png" />

## Read messages
Duration: 05:00

> In this step we will add functionality to read and display messages stored in Realtime Database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we will add functionality to read and display messages stored in Realtime Database.
```

> ### Import Sample Messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Import sample messages
```

1. In the Emulator Suite UI, select the **Realtime Database** tab.
2. Drag and drop the `initial_messages.json` file from the codelab repository into the data viewer. 

<img src="img/import-data.gif" />

You should now have a few messages under the `messages` node of the database.

> ### Read Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Read data
```

> ### Test message sync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Test syncing messages
```

### Configure Realtime Database

As mentioned, this app will store chat messages in Firebase Realtime Database. In this step we will create a database and configure the security via a JSON configuration language called Security Rules.

1. Go to your project in the Firebase console and select **Realtime Database** from the left navigation.
2. Click **Create Database** create a new Realtime Database instance and then select the `us-central1` region and click **Next**.
3. When prompted about security rules, choose **locked mode** and click **Enable**. 

Once the database has been created, select the **Rules** tab and update the rules configuration with the following:

```
{
  "rules": {
    "messages": {
      ".read": "auth.uid != null",
      ".write": "auth.uid != null"
    }
  }
}
```

Click "Publish" to publish the new rules.

For more information on how this works (including documentation on the "auth" variable) see the Firebase  [security documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/security/quickstart).

### Configure Cloud Storage for Firebase

> In the Firebase console select **Storage** in the left navigation panel. Then click **Get Started** to enable Cloud Storage for your project.  Continue following the steps in the prompt, using the suggested defaults.

Author: Good point! Filed https://github.com/firebase/codelab-friendlychat-android/issues/176 to follow up on this as that's slightly out of scope for this PR.

> Next try using what you learned to add Firebase to your own Android app! To learn more about Firebase visit [firebase.google.com](https://firebase.google.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, try using what you learned in this codelab to add Firebase to your own Android app! To learn more about Firebase, visit [firebase.google.com](https://firebase.google.com).
```

If you want to learn how to set up a _real_ Firebase project and use _real_ Firebase resources (instead of a demo project and _only_ emulated resources), continue to the next step.

> Note: Even after you set up a real Firebase project and _especially_ when you get started building a real app, we recommend using the Firebase Local Emulator Suite for development and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Even after you set up a real Firebase project and _especially_ when you get started building a real app, we recommend using the Firebase Local Emulator Suite for development and testing.
```

Before you begin this step, get the SHA1 hash of your app. Run the following command from your local `build-android-start` directory to determine the SHA1 of your debug key:

```console
./gradlew signingReport

Store: /Users/<username>/.android/debug.keystore
Alias: AndroidDebugKey
MD5: A5:88:41:04:8F:06:59:6A:AE:33:76:87:AA:AD:19:23
SHA1: A7:89:F5:06:A8:07:A1:22:EC:90:6A:A6:EA:C3:D4:8B:3A:30:AB:18
SHA-256: 05:A2:2A:35:EE:F2:51:23:72:4D:72:67:A5:6A:8A:58:22:2C:00:A6:AB:F6:45:D5:A1:82:D8:90:A4:69:C8:FE
Valid until: Wednesday, August 10, 2044
```

You should see some output like the above. The important line is the `SHA1` hash. If you're unable to find your SHA1 hash, see [this page](https://developers.google.com/android/guides/client-auth) for more information.

Go back to the Firebase console, and follow these steps to register your Android project with your Firebase project:

  1. From the overview screen of your new project, click the Android icon to launch the setup workflow:
     <img src="img/add-android-app.png" alt="add android app" />
  1. On the next screen, enter `com.google.firebase.codelab.friendlychat` as the package name for your app.

>   1. Click **Register App**, then click **Download google-services.json** to download the your Firebase configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Click **Register App**, then click **Download google-services.json** to download your Firebase configuration file.
```
